README.md, before:

[![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/ay77ykijskpiuiy8?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/StevenGilligan/autocompare) [![codecov.io](http://codecov.io/github/StevenGilligan/AutoCompare/coverage.svg?branch=dev)](http://codecov.io/github/StevenGilligan/AutoCompare?branch=dev)

AutoCompare
===========

What is AutoCompare?
--------------------

AutoCompare is a simple library with the goal of making it effortless to compare two objects of the same type to generate the list of modified properties.

Why use AutoCompare?
--------------------

The main goal of AutoCompare is making it easy to get differences between two objects of the same type. AutoCompare builds an Expression Tree the first time you compare a type so the first call is always slower. Once the Expression Tree is built and compiled, comparing two objects becomes extremely fast. 

How to use this library
-----------------------

Include [AutoCompare](https://www.nuget.org/packages/AutoCompare/) in your project using [NuGet](https://www.nuget.org/)

From the package manager console : 

    PM> Install-Package AutoCompare -Pre

Features
--------

* Works on any object type, and does deep compare (compares child objects)
* Reflection is only used the first time a type is compared, successive calls are executing a compiled lambda and are extremely fast
* Detects circular references so it won't throw a StackOverflowException if you have `Parent.Child.Parent`
* Strongly typed fluent configuration using lambdas
* Supports `IEnumerable<>` and `IDictionary<,>` properties, although some configuration might be necessary

Code examples
-------------

Compare two objects
```c#
var updatedProperties = AutoCompare.Comparer.Compare<MyObjectType>(objA, objB);
```

Configure properties that shouldn't be compared
```c#
AutoCompare.Comparer.Configure<MyObjectType>()
    .Ignore(x => x.IgnoredProperty)
    .Ignore(x => x.AnotherIgnoredProperty);
```

Configure a dictionary property to perform a deep compare. Objects are compared by matching keys. By default, dictionaries are not deeply compared and the values are simply compared using the default equality comparer, even if the value is a complex type. 
```c#
AutoCompare.Comparer.Configure<MyObjectType>()
    .DeepCompare(x => x.DictionaryProperty);
```

Configure a IEnumerable (array, list, hashmap, etc.) property to perform a deep compare. To deeply compare lists, you must specify the property to be used as a key or ID. 
```c#
AutoCompare.Comparer.Configure<MyObjectType>()
    .Enumerable(x => x.ListProperty, x => x.DeepCompare(y => y.ID));
```

Calling `Configure<Type>()` is optional and AutoCompare will default to comparing every property, without doing deep compare for enumerables and dictionaries. 

Please note that you must call `Configure<Type>()` only once per type, and call it before any call to `Compare<Type>()` is made or it will throw an exception.

More examples can be found in AutoCompare.Tests

Licence
-------

AutoCompare is Copyright &copy; 2015 [Steven Gilligan](http://steven.gilligan.io) and other contributors under the [MIT license](LICENSE.txt).

Commit message:

Configuration refactor, IComparerEngine work, more tests
Refactored configuration to provide an easier to use interface

Finished the work needed for the IComparerEngine to support IoC/DI

Refactored tests, added tests for IoC

Closes #6

README.md, after:

[![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/ay77ykijskpiuiy8?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/StevenGilligan/autocompare) [![codecov.io](http://codecov.io/github/StevenGilligan/AutoCompare/coverage.svg?branch=dev)](http://codecov.io/github/StevenGilligan/AutoCompare?branch=dev)

AutoCompare
===========

What is AutoCompare?
--------------------

AutoCompare is a simple library with the goal of making it effortless to compare two objects of the same type to generate the list of modified properties.

Why use AutoCompare?
--------------------

The main goal of AutoCompare is making it easy to get differences between two objects of the same type. AutoCompare builds an Expression Tree the first time you compare a type so the first call is always slower. Once the Expression Tree is built and compiled, comparing two objects becomes extremely fast. 

How to use AutoCompare in your project
--------------------------------------

Include [AutoCompare](https://www.nuget.org/packages/AutoCompare/) in your project using [NuGet](https://www.nuget.org/)

From the package manager console : 

    PM> Install-Package AutoCompare -Pre

Features
--------

* Works on any object type, and does deep compare (compares child objects)
* Reflection is only used the first time a type is compared, successive calls are executing a compiled lambda and are extremely fast
* Detects circular references so it won't throw a StackOverflowException if you have `Parent.Child.Parent`
* Strongly typed fluent configuration using lambdas
* Supports `IEnumerable<>` and `IDictionary<,>` properties, although some configuration might be necessary
* Supports DI/IoC frameworks with the `IComparerEngine` interface, initialize using a `new Engine()`
* Supports having multiple configuration for the same type, using separate `IComparerEngine` instances

Code examples
-------------

Compare two objects
```c#
var differences = AutoCompare.Comparer.Compare<MyObjectType>(objA, objB);
```

Configure properties that shouldn't be compared
```c#
AutoCompare.Comparer.Configure<MyObjectType>()
    .For(x => x.IgnoredProperty, x => x.Ignore()) 
    .Ignore(x => x.AnotherIgnoredProperty); // Alternative way to ignore a property
```

Configure a IEnumerable (array, list, hashmap, etc.) property to perform a deep compare. To deeply compare lists, you must specify the property to be used as a key or ID. 
```c#
AutoCompare.Comparer.Configure<MyObjectType>()
    .For(x => x.ListProperty, x => x.MatchUsing(y => y.ID));
```

Precompile a type to make sure the first comparison is not slowed down by the compilation process
```c#
AutoCompare.Comparer.Configure<MyObjectType>()
	.Compile.Now(); // .Compile.Async() also available
```

Calling `Configure<Type>()` is optional and AutoCompare will default to comparing every public property. 

Please note that you must call `Configure<Type>()` only once per type, and call it before any call to `Compare<Type>()` is made or it will throw an exception.

More examples can be found in AutoCompare.Tests

Licence
-------

AutoCompare is Copyright &copy; 2015 [Steven Gilligan](http://steven.gilligan.io) and other contributors under the [Apache 2.0 license](LICENSE.txt).
